---
layout:     post
comments:   true
title:      GSoC Week 1
date:       2021-06-14 06:00:00
author:     Sidharth Mundhra
summary:    Work done in week 1 of GSoC 2021
categories: jekyll
thumbnail:  heart
tags:
 - gsoc
 - SymPy
---

I managed to finish the work I had planned and opened a PR. While I did not
implement zeta function leading term method, I implemented erfi leading term
method instead.

It turned out that determining when `series` should call `aseries` is not as
straightforward as I had thought. The first step is determining whether a power
series exists or not, which means all low level `_eval_nseries` should behave
similarly in the cases where they raise errors. If a series expansion
about `x0` does not exist, then `PoleError` should be thrown. Once this is unified
and all low level series methods agree, it should be possible to just catch this
error when thrown and call `aseries` instead.

I also debugged [#19453](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/issues/19453) - the root cause is this
[block](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/blob/b4777fdcef467b7132c055f8ac2c9a5059e6a145/sympy/core/mul.py#L1910-L1915) of code. There is a rounding error
and the sum of `-0.33` and `0.33` returns `-5.55111512312578e-17`, instead of `0`.
This is something which cannot be fixed directly, so an alternative is calling
the example in the issue with exact SymPy numbers like `S.Half` instead of `0.5`.

Next, I will try to make some ammendments to the limits code. `is_meromorphic`
does not catch all meromorphic functions, so such functions can probably be handled
in a similar way using a try-catch block. This is the plan for next week, and if it
finishes earlier, I will try fixing some more limits related issues.
